Neighborhood: Jefferson Park
img-1: drikung-dzogchen-center-of-arizona
img-2: international-school-of-tucson
img-3: park-avenue-health-and-rehabilitation
p1: Located in Jefferson Park at 1038 E. Lester St., Tucson, AZ, Drikung Dzogchen Center of Arizona is a buddhist temple that was founded in 2014 by Venerable Ontul rinpoche. It is a meditation center that provides opportunities to study and practice Tibetan Vajrayana Buddhism and directly represent the Venerable Ontul Rinpoche and the Yangzab lineage of the Drikung Dzogchen. The primary mission is to preserve continuation of the Drikung Kagyü Yangzab, Mahamudra, Kadampa, and other teachings for the benefit of all beings as taught by Lhö Ontul Rinpoche and Karma Ratna Rinpoche to their students in the United States. Because they have a living dharma tradition, this means supporting the practice communities of Lhö Ontul Rinpoche’s lineages that have emerged and will continue to emerge in the West. The organization exist to maintain and propagate the teachings of this lineage and so that many beings will receive benefit.
p2: Located in Jefferson Park at 1701 E Seneca St, Tucson, AZ, the International School of Tucson is a leading international school committed to offering the Tucson community an unequaled world class international education. They offer a full language immersion in Spanish, Chinese, French and German in the Preschool and a dual immersion in Spanish, Chinese, French and German in the Junior School. The institution provides a comprehensive and well-balanced education to children of wide ranging abilities. They emphasize learning-to-learn skills, citizenship and preparation for a successful life in an inter-cultural world. International School of Tucson has, therefore, designed a curriculum that is full of a whole range of experiences, activities and opportunities which will nurture young people who are well-rounded and capable young men and women. All students are entitled to receive high quality international education that not only caters for their diverse intellectual needs, but also guarantees that their physical, emotional, social and health needs are met.
p3: Located in Jefferson Park at 2001 N Park Ave, Tucson, AZ, Park Avenue Health and Rehabilitation is a part of a continuing care retirement community. It participates in Medicare and Medicaid. They employ a variety of high-tech and good old-fashioned hands-on therapeutic approaches to design a custom therapy program that is tailored for everyone. Spending time at Park Avenue Health and Rehabilitation will be filled with the caliber of service that will make your stay comfortable, safe and therapeutic. They work together to create a sense of community. The center has light-filled dining rooms, state-of-the-art therapy rooms, lovely outdoor spaces, comfortable rooms, and beautiful artwork. The staff takes pride in keeping Park Avenue Health & Rehabilitation Center sparkling clean and making sure their guests feel comfortable each and every day.
